So the first reading is two Sam chapter seven
one to sixteen, and I'm gonna read that.
And then Emma's gonna read from us
from two Timothy two
one to thirteen.
So this is two Samuel chapter seven
one to sixteen.
After the king was settled in his palace and the lord had given him rest
from all his enemies around him,
he said to Nathan, the prophet, here I am,
living in a house of cedar
while the ark of god remains in a tent.
Nathan replied to the king, whatever you have in mind, go ahead and do it.
For the lord is with you.
But that night, the word of the lord came to Nathan saying,
go and tell my servant David
This is what the lord says.
Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in?
I've not dwelt in a house from the day I brought the Israelites
up out of Egypt to this day.
I've been moving from place to place with a tent as my dwelling.
Wherever I've moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their rulers
whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel,
why have you not built me a house of cedar?
Now then, tell my servant David
this is what the Lord Almighty says,
I took from you I took you from the pasture
from tending the flock,
and appointed you ruler over my people Israel.
I've been with you wherever you have gone,
I've cut off all your enemies from before you.
Now I will make your name great.
Like the names of the greatest men on earth.
And I'll provide a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own
and no longer be disturbed.
Wicked people will not oppress them anymore as they did at the beginning.
And have done ever since the time I appointed leaders
over my people Israel.
I'll also give you rest from all your enemies.
The Lord declares to you that the Lord himself
will establish a house for you.
When your days are over and you rest with your ancestors,
I will raise up your offspring to succeed you.
Your own flesh and blood.
And I'll establish his kingdom.
He is the one who will build a house for my name.
And I'll establish the throne of his kingdom
forever.
I'll be his father. He will be my son.
When he does wrong, I'll punish him with a rod wielded by men.
With floggings inflicted by human hands.
But my love will never be taken away from him as I took it away from Saul
whom I removed him from before you.
Your house
your kingdom
will endure forever before me.
Your throne will be established forever.
So two Timothy chapter
two and we are going to be reading from verses one through thirteen.
Then you, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ
And the things you have heard me say in the presence of many witnesses, entrust
to reliable people who will also be qualified to teach others.
Join with me in suffering like a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No one serving as a soldier gets entangled in civilian affairs.
But rather tries to please his commanding officer.
Similarly,
anyone who competes as an athlete does not receive the victor's crown except
competing according to the rules.
The hardworking farmer should be the first to receive a share of the crops.
Reflect on what I'm saying for the Lord will give you great insight
Oh sorry, will give you insight into all of death.
Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead,
descended from David,
This is my gospel for which I'm suffering
even to the point of being chained like a criminal.
But God's word is not chained.
Therefore, I endure everything for the sake of the elect.
That they too may obtain a salvation that is in Christ Jesus
with eternal glory
Here is a trustworthy saying.
If we died with him, we will also live with him.
If we endure,
we will also reign with him.
If we disown him,
will also disown us.
If we are faithless, he remains faithful.
For he cannot disown himself.
You know, some parts in life
seems like there's no way out.
Like a sheep
trapped in a maze
designed by wolves.
And you know that if you're ever in that situation, are always two doors to
choose from.
And through the first door,
oh, it's easy to get through that door and on the other side waiting for you, oh, the nummies
treats you can imagine.
Fanta, Doritos, LMP,
burger rings,
Coke Zero,
But you know what? There's also another ball.
Not the burger ring door, not the Fanta door.
Another door that's harder to get through.
Guess what's on the other side?
Anyone want to take a gift?
It's not my building.
It's Jesus' building.
He's the Christ.
Descended from David,
raised from the dead,
He owns everything.
And look, if you've been a Christian for a while, everything there
that David says makes sense. You probably
read two Samuel seven a dozen times.
But at the end of verse eight,
Paul says something that
was just a little bit odd.
Have a look in verse eight. He says, remember Jesus Christ
raised from the dead, descendant of David,
this is my gospel.
In other words, if you ask me what my message is,
this is the message that I tell everyone. This is my gospel. Jesus is the king.
Now, does that surprise you a little bit?
Does Paul maybe leave something out that you would have put in?
So just say a friend asks you,
all this Christianity business about? And you finally get the chance to tell them about Christianity.
What information would you always make sure you'd include?
Jesus' death. Right?
We always wanna make sure. We say Jesus
That Wilderpeople movie.
Just kind of like he's
he's irrelevant.
And he's unimportant.
And he's trivial,
and we hate that.
We're jealous for Jesus' glory.
It's funny. Jealousy is usually
Large.
Of my own life
no one can tell me how to live
No one can tell me what to do with my body.
No one can tell me who I am.
One can tell me what to do with my time.
Or my money.
I'm in charge of my own life.
Word is not
changed.
You can chain me
tie me down in one place, but you can't stop god's word from going out.
Out.
Again, that's just a huge comfort for us, isn't it?
So you say something unexpected happens,
Up on the screen.
Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with
every spiritual blessing in Christ.
For he chose us in him
before the creation of the world.
To be holy and blameless in his sight.
In love, he predestined us
for adoption to sonship through Jesus Christ.
You see, before God
even created the world, before you were born, before any of us were born,
But in his love, God predestined me
before I'd done anything good or bad.
In his love, God chose me. And then by the Holy
Spirit, he called me when the message came.
The holy spirit called me and he gave me the faith to believe.
At that point, you might be thinking to yourself,
but
does that mean then that I
didn't choose god? If god chose me first, did I really actually choose him at all?
The answer is, of course, you did. You can remember if you chose god if you
Christian, you can remember making the choice, can't you?
When I became a Christian, it was nineteen eighty nine
I chose to investigate.
And I weighed up all the options, and I looked at the evidence, and I especially actually looked
at other Christians' lives
and I made the choice that I believe in this. I did all of that.
It's just that god chose me first.
Look how Luke describes what happened in Antioch.
Paul has been preaching the gospel
and when the Gentiles heard the message,
they were glad
and honored the word of the Lord.
And all who were appointed for eternal life
believed.
Do you see how both of those two ideas are together?
God appointed people
for eternal life.
And then they heard the message
They heard that Jesus was the Christ raised from the dead, descended from David,
and they were glad
and they honored the word of the Lord and they believed.
Of course, we choose god.
But he chose us first.
Even before he made the world.
Now you know what this means?
It means I'm confident
as we go and speak to the people in Newey and Lake Mac. I'm supremely confident
because I know that god has his elect in this city.
I know there are people out there in Newey and Lake
that God chose to be his before he even created the world.
He has already appointed them for eternal life.
All we have to do is find them.
And that's the fun bit.
We get to go out and we get to talk to people and we get to tell them that Jesus is the Christ,
and those people that God has chosen will actually honor the word of God and believe.
Now, we don't know who they are yet,
It's not like you can tell the elect because they're different
anyone else. It's not like you can tell the elect because they're the ones who are nicer people.
And they're living better lives. No. God calls people from all walks of life.
But we'll just go out
and we'll tell as many people as we can and we'll see what god does.
I feel about Newcastle and Lake Mac
the way Paul felt about Corinth.
Have a look in Acts eighteen.
One night,
the Lord spoke to Paul
in a vision.
Don't be afraid.
Keep on speaking.
Don't be silent.
For I'm with you and no one is gonna attack and harm you.
Because I have many people in this city.
So Paul stayed in Corinth for about a year and a half teaching them the word of God.
Now when Jesus says he has many people in Corinth,
does he mean many Christians?
No. Because Paul's only just arrived in Corinth at this point.
At this point, there are almost no Christians.
In Corinth.
But Jesus says, I have many people in this city.
They just didn't know it themselves yet.
They hadn't heard the gospel from Paul's lips yet. They weren't believers yet.
But Jesus says they're still my people.
And knowing that meant that Paul
stayed in Corinth for a year and a half teaching them the word of God.
That's how we feel about new Ian like Mac, isn't it?
Jesus has his people here.
We just gotta go find them.
We're go and talk to our friends and we're gonna keep praying for them. And
we keep inviting them along to life and if god's chosen them in the
power of the holy spirit,
they'll come.
And, again, here's the thing. We don't actually need a building to do any of this, do we?
We've been doing this
for thirty years as a church.
And actually, we are already
spread
all over the city. You wanna see something really encouraging?
Here's a map. I think you're about to see kind of an animation
of
here's a map of all of Newey and Lake Mac with all of our people
marked on it.
That's where you live. You're one of those blue dots.
Isn't it nice that you can be reduced down to a blue dot on a page?
Isn't it Carrie? We actually live
all over the city, right from Fern Bay in the north.
All the way down to Lake Munmorra in the south.
And his families and his people were involved
with other families and people
all over the city. We're involved in their lives and we're praying for them
And look, that's something that a building is never actually gonna change, is it?
The suburbs that we live in and the people that we love and the people we're talking to
none of that's gonna change because we get a building.
It's just that the building will make it easier
for us to reach them.
This this map that I think you can kind of see
on the screen
this map is all of the people who live in a twenty minute
drive within twenty minutes drive from the building on a Sunday.
Everyone who lives within twenty minutes is in kind of that shaded area.
And you can see, basically,
it's the entire the entire city.
Right from the very top of Newey right into the beach at the east,
right out to Holmesville in the west,
right down to Toronto in the southwest, to Belmont in the southeast.
It's about three hundred thousand people.
Within twenty minutes drive of that building.
We really it's like Mitch said earlier, we really could not have come up
with a better place
to reach Nguyen Lake
phrom.
It's the most incredible gift from God.
For them,
not us.
We'll still be able to talk to our friends,
We'll still be able to talk to our neighbors in our suburbs.
It's just that they can all find the building and reach it.
And look, to reach the city really is worth
cost, isn't it?
Just have a look at what Paul says from verse eight again.
He says, remember Jesus Christ
raised from the dead,
descended from David. This is my gospel.
For which I'm suffering even to the point of being chained like a criminal
but God's word is not chained.
Therefore,
I endure
everything for the sake of the elect.
That they too may obtain the salvation that's in Christ Jesus with the
eternal glory. I find verse ten incredibly inspiring and at the same time,
really, really, really challenging.
See, Paul weighs up two things.
On the one hand,
he weighs up everything he has to endure.
Which was a lot. If know anything about Paul's life,
we're talking persecution from the Jews,
hunger and starvation, shipwrecks being beaten, being
chased, being thrown out of cities, the travel being chucked
in jail, riding from jail. He's not sure what's gonna happen with his even his own life and death
Paul weighs up
all of that on the one hand,
and then he also, in the other hand, weighs up
the salvation of the elect.
And their eternal glory in Christ Jesus.
And he says,
no contest.
It's not even a contest.
I enjoy everything.
For the sake of the elect.
That they too may obtain the salvation that's in Christ Jesus with
eternal glory.
It's worth it
is what he said.
For the salvation of God's elect
it's worth it.
No matter what it is.
It was worth the blood of God's own son. That's how worth it God thinks it is.
He sent his only son.
And the same is true for us, isn't it?
I said last week, I could not ask you
to give to a building
that I didn't personally believe in myself.
I couldn't I couldn't give to it myself if I really didn't believe
that this building
would help
people become Christian.
I think it will.
I think in the decades to come, hundreds of people
thousands of people are gonna become Christians in that building.
Because it'll locate us in community. People will be able to drive past
and they will see us there. I love something that someone told me last week.
Just over road,
from where the church is, there's an oval
where kids play soccer every weekend. If you came yesterday,
probably saw them. They were parked in your spot.
And what happens is they all drive down the road looking for a park
and they turn right into our street.
And they come to our driveway, and they do a UE
and they turn around and park. Imagine if we open the gate on a Saturday morning.
Imagine if we said, come park inside here for free.
Imagine if we said, here, have a coffee on us to drink while you're walking
over to the oval.
Imagine if those people then became curious enough to investigate
What a crazy bunch of people that they open their building and they give us coffee for
Just across the road,
from where our building is,
there's a whole bunch of bushland that actually is about to have sixty six
new houses being built on it.
Sixty six new families right on our doorstep.
Imagine that.
Imagine all the kids who are gonna come to wave there
every January.
And hear about the gospel.
Imagine the Wave Cafe
that's not in a hot grimy tent out the front
but is actually in
air conditioned comfort.
In the foyer that we build around the outside of it. So the kids are outside in forty degrees.
You're sitting inside sipping a latte.
It's kinda worth it, isn't it?
Imagine the hundreds and
hundreds of youth
on a Friday night
coming and hearing about Jesus, and not just for the next five years.
The next fifty years, the next hundred years,
years. It's worth twice what we're paying.
That's worth it, isn't it? It's worth the inconvenience.
It's worth the sacrifice.
It's worth some of us traveling a little bit
further
to go to church.
And it's worth really digging deeply into your pocket
for this.
One. Last week, I shared with you
well, I think Sam did with you guys, but I shared with the rest of church
how Emma and I are planning to give and how much we're planning to give.
And if you want, you can go back and listen to the
For Emma and I, the figure is twenty five thousand.
And we also asked our senior staff, so that's non MTS.
To nominate how much they'll give. And I found out on Friday,
and it literally brought a tear to my eye.
Because it's such an incredibly sacrificial amount.
It's such a two Timothy two verse ten
a man.
The thirteen families on our senior staff have together pledged
more than two hundred and thirty five thousand dollars
That's an average of eighteen thousand dollars per family.
Now you know what's so encouraging about that?
Some of those families are still right at the beginning of their family life.
They're right at the beginning of mortgages. They're right at the beginning of having kids.
Money's tight.
They got so many demands on their finances
but they really get two Timothy two verse ten.
Therefore, I endure
everything for the sake of the elect.
That they too may obtain the salvation that's in Christ Jesus with
eternal glory.
Let's pray.
Our great God,
we praise you that you have raised Jesus from the
dead. This one who died for our sins, died in our place.
Taking our punishment,
We praise you that you've rewarded him with glory forever.
And we praise you that this is our message
to the world.
We pray that people will honor him, and we pray that in our own hearts, you'll make us
angry and frustrated and upset
that he doesn't get the glory he deserves.
We pray that we'll tell people about Jesus
for Jesus' sake
and also for theirs.
Please give us a desperate urgency
to tell the people who we love. Help us to overcome the awkwardness
the pain,
for their sake.
Indeed, we pray
that we would be willing to do endure
everything
for the sake of the elect?
We pray that our hearts would so overflow with love for them that the
cost to ourselves
would diminish.
And we pray that you would use this building
We know it's not
the point of the kingdom.
But we pray that it would be a tool for the kingdom.
We pray for the sixty six new families
at some point in the next few years will move in across the road.
We pray for those people who go to soccer there,
We pray for the people who come to Wave. We pray for the kids who come through youth.
We pray that people will become Christians in every single room in that building.
In the auditorium,
in the kids' center,
and the foyer that we eventually build
out in the oval, in the bush,
even in the toilets, we pray that you would bring people to Christ there.
Because he truly deserves it.
Amen.
