Yes. This morning, we'll be reading from
Matthew chapter seventeen.
And after six days, Jesus took
with him Peter and James
and John.
His brother.
And led them up a high mountain
by themselves.
And he was transfigured before them
and his face shone lightly sun.
And his clothes
became white as light.
And behold, there appeared to them Moses,
and Elijah talking with him.
And Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good that we are here.
If you wish, I will make three tents here, one for you and one for Moses,
and one for Elijah.
He was still speaking,
when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed him
and a voice from the cloud said,
this is my beloved son.
With whom I am well pleased.
Listen to him.
When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified.
But Jesus came and touched him saying,
'Rise and have no fear.'
And when they lifted up their eyes,
they saw no one.
But Jesus only.
And as they were coming down the mountain,
Jesus commanded them
Tell no one of the vision
until the son of man is raised from the dead.
And the disciples asked him,
then why do the scribe say that Elijah must
come?
He answered, Elijah does come, and he will restore all things.
But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him.
But did to him whatever they pleased.
So also the son of man was certainly
suffer at their hands.
Then the disciples understood that he was speaking.
To them of John the Baptist.
And when they came to the crowd,
a man came up behind him
and kneeling before him said,
Lord, have mercy on my son for he has seizures and he suffers terribly.
Often he falls into the fire and often into the water.
And I brought him to you
disciples, and they could not heal him.
And Jesus answered,
oh, faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you?
Long am I to bear with you?
Bring him here to me.
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him.
The boy was healed amid
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said,
why could we not cast it out?
He said to them,
because of your little faith.
For truly I say to ye,
you have faith like a grain of a mustard seed,
you'd say to this mountain,
move from here to there.
It will move.
Nothing will be impossible for you.
As they were gathering in Galilee,
Jesus said to them,
the son of man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.
And they will kill him.
And he will be raised
on the third day.
And they were greatly distressed.
When they came to Capernaum, the
collectors of the two drachmentacks went up to Peter and said,
does your teacher not pay the tax?
He said, yes.
And
when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first saying,
what do you think, Simon?
From whom do the kings of the earth take their toll or tax?
From their sons or from others?
And when he said from others, Jesus said to him,
then the sons are free.
Have not to give offense to them. Go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish.
That comes up.
And when you open its mouth, you will find a shackle
Take that and give it to them.
For me and for yourself.
Well, good morning, everyone. My name is
Scott. I'm one of the pastors here at Hunter Bible Church, and I'm one
other things, one of my roles
is looking after the garden suburb campus here.
If you are new or visiting, let me extend a warm welcome to you. I'd love for you to come along on
Tuesday to the Tuesday feed. My family will be there.
Bringing some of the chaos levels up. So we'd love for you to
come and enjoy dinner with us as we dig into what we think it means to be part of God's
family here at HBC.
But we've got a wonderful passage before us in Matthew seventeen,
And the question I wanna start with is, what do you do as a Christian
What do you do as a Christian when life doesn't feel like a victory?
When it doesn't feel
glorious,
because we believe as Christians that Jesus, he has achieved victory.
He's defeated sin. He's defeated death. He's defeated Satan through his death.
And resurrection.
But often for us, life can just feel mundane, can't it?
You know, nine to five, going through the grind, just getting up,
making breakfast, kids off to school, picking the kids up,
you're going to sleep, and then we do it all. Life can just feel so mundane, can't it?
What do you do with life?
What do do with this this tension that Jesus has achieved victory when we experience doubts
in our faith.
Pointed forward in places like Deuteronomy eighteen to one
who finally would come bringing God's final word.
To the nations.
And so when God says listen to him, I think
god is saying, Jesus is my final prophet.
Listen
to him.
And so here on this mountain in this
climactic moment of Jesus' ministry in the gospels, the veil's being
in our view of Jesus is meant to be being exploded.
Of how we think about him. It's a little bit like one season
very little bit like one season.
When I was playing rugby,
on the Central Coast,
and we were in need of a savior.
We'd gone through three seasons and won one game in three seasons.
And over the off season, our coach had recruited
a retired Australian and New South Wales rugby league player,
and his name was Greg Florimo. Now most of you probably don't know who that
That's alright. You don't you just follow with me, but
you know, initially, retired
it look it was pretty old.
One who in verse six, when it starts to sink in for the disciples, who this is, Peter, James, and John, they
fall over in terror.
Woe is me, a sinner compared to our holy god.
Here is god's powerful king.
Coming to establish god's eternal kingdom.
Here is the one from whom
all knees
will one day bow.
You want to or not,
Every knee is gonna bow to this guy, Jesus.
He is deserving of all our love.
Adoration, and worship.
And, you know, in the next few chapters, just to prepare our hearts
for the coming weeks, Jesus is gonna have some hard lessons for us in the locker room.
He's gonna be teaching us about hell,
and church discipline, putting off greed,
divorce,
And so how are we gonna respond to him with those hard lessons?
Well, he's the one we ought to listen to.
He's this the glorious
son of man.
God himself, god's final prophet.
Who we ought to listen to.
But, you know, there's another
aspect of Jesus that he's being revealed.
On this mount.
So that servant
in Isaiah
there's another servant song in Isaiah fifty three about how
God's servant will bring forgiveness and restoration to the ends of the earth
through his suffering
and death.
As he pays the penalty for our sin and rebellion against God.
And I think that's why Jesus is revealing
his glory in this moment in the gospels.
To these three disciples.
He's just told his disciples for the first
time last chapter in sixteen twenty one that the son of man is gonna go
suffer and die in Jerusalem.
And so as he goes to that shame,
and humiliation of the cross for the sins of the world,
he wants them to remember
who it is that is hanging from that cursed cross.
And whereas we struggle to remember, I think, Jesus
glory,
his disciples all throughout the gospel
struggle with the fact that this glorious son of man would suffer.
And you actually see that as they descend from the mountain
of glory.
So look at verse nine.
As they were coming down the mountain, Jesus
don't tell anyone what you're saying until
the son of man has been raised
from the dead.
This and I think they're going, okay.
We've just seen this this massive picture of who Jesus is, and now
but he still got this why he's still hung up on his
dying stuff? Jesus.
The son of man coming in all sovereign power, he's gonna how does that work?
So verse ten, they actually ask him an interesting question. What are the teachers of law
say Elijah?
Must come first?
And so so there's this actually this prophecy in Malachi about an Elijah like
figure who would come. And when he comes, he would prepare the way for God himself.
To come and restore God's kingdom.
To bring glory
to God's kingdom.
And so I think they're they're asking that question, like, where does Elijah fit into this? Because
we we like the glory part, but where's this suffering thing? You keep talking about dying.
And Jesus replies, verse eleven, Elijah will restore all things.
Glory is coming.
And in fact, verse twelve, this Elijah has already come.
And then notice what Jesus emphasizes about.
Is Elijah.
They didn't recognize it.
But they had their way with him.
And in the same way, the son of man is going to
suffer
at their hands.
And in verse thirteen, they now get that he's talking about
John the Baptist who was beheaded.
This Elijah like figure.
But I still don't think they get
that Jesus, the glorious son of man, must suffer even though he's like,
kinda telling them again and again.
And we actually see that if you look down in verse twenty two. When they came together in Galilee,
he said to them again,
Maybe here and you haven't yet
trusted
in Jesus, or if you wanna grow in your faith,
don't
focus on your feelings.
Don't worry about your faith.
Focus on trusting Jesus.
Focus on him.
The glorious suffering man be captured by him
his power, his trustworthiness, and give yourself wholly to him.
Trust him with your sins. Trust him with your fears. Trust him with your family.
Trust him with your work, trust him with your lives, your eternities. Trust
him, the one who came and died and is resurrected and reigning right now. Trust
in him.
And then often what happens, our emotions might catch up.
But focus on them.
Focus on him.
Because Jesus says if we do this in verse twenty, even our faith is
small as a mustard seed in him,
then that tiny bit of faith can move something as massive as a mountain.
Nothing will be impossible for you, verse twenty.
Now what does Jesus mean by that?
Because I have never met a Christian
yet.
Who has moved Mount Everest.
Or Mount Sugarloaf, small fry compared to Everest for that matter.
Never met a Christian yet. I'm sure there's been some that have tried.
And, surely, he can't mean like nothing is impossible.
Like nothing whatsoever. My daughter at the moment, most nights in her prayer life is praying for magic
powers. Like,
you know, to fly and stuff like that. Is that what we should expect as Christians?
So what does Jesus mean by this here?
Well, first, let me be clear on what I think he doesn't mean.
And then we'll get to what I think he means.
He doesn't mean faith is mechanistic.
Or transactional.
Like it's some equation or magic.
We've already seen that it's relational.
So faith is not a matter of, you know,
putting enough of my faith into God like a vending machine.
And then out pops healing or wealth or success
or glory or whatever we want in life like flying.
We had friends who believed who were kinda part of a
word of faith
movement, name it and claim it theology.
They thought if they just had enough faith, they could heal every disease
They would have wealth and whatever worldly success they wanted.
And then when life was hard,
their response in that view was just to try harder to have more faith within themselves.
Faith for them at that point became an inner self dependence and a work.
In relationship with God.
But when God didn't answer their prayers the way they wanted,
you know what happened? They became so frustrated.
And angry with god
And one day they realized, oh, actually,
not even depending on Jesus at all.
Just depending on ourselves.
And so they walked away entirely.
It's a tragic way to think.
And it's entirely unbiblical.
Jesus is not saying faith is mechanistic
or transactional. God is not a vending machine. We never demand of the god of the universe.
Faith is relational. It's about trust, so we request
and we trust that he'll do what he thinks is right and best for us
all the time.
Even when it doesn't feel like that's the case.
We trust in his goodness and his promises to us.
And, you know, something
some things god does promise for us in this life.
Like, if we keep trusting and listening to him, he'll grow our love for him. He does promise that.
He does promise he'll grow us to be more like Jesus.
He does promise that there is peace and comfort to be found and freedom
in him now.
But you know what God never promises in this life?
That I will have health, wealth, or worldly success
or I'll walk on water, or I'll drive out demons.
God can do all of those things.
Seems to Jesus then.
Amen.
