So Acts chapter fourteen.
At Iconium, Paul and Barnabas went
as usual into the Jewish synagogue.
There they spoke so effectively
that a great number of Jews and Greeks believed.
But the Jews who refused to believe
stirred up the other Gentiles and poisoned their minds
against the brothers. So Paul and Barnabas spent considerable time there
speaking boldly for the Lord who confirmed the message of
his grace by enabling them to perform signs and wonders.
The people of the city were divided. Some sided with the Jews,
others with the apostles.
There was a plot afoot
among both Gentiles and Jews together with their leaders to
reat them and stone them.
But they found out about it and fled to the Lycaonian cities of Lystra
and Derbe and to the surrounding country where they continued to preach the gospel.
In Lystra, there sat a man who was lame.
He had been that way from birth and had never walked.
He listened to Paul as he was speaking.
Paul looked directly at him
saw that he had faith to be healed and called out
stand up on your feet.
At that,
the man jumped up
and began to walk.
When the crowd saw what Paul had done, they shouted,
in the Lycaonian language, the gods have come down to us in human form.
Barnabas, they called Zeus, and Paul, they called Hermes because he was the chief speaker.
The priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city,
brought bulls and wreaths to the city gates because he and the crowd wanted to offer sacrifices to them.
But when the apostles, and Paul, heard of this, they
tore their clothes and rushed out into the crowd shouting
friends, why are you doing this?
We too are only human like you.
Are bringing you good news, telling you to turn from these worthless things to the living God,
who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything in them.
In the past, he let all nations go their own way.
Yet he has not left himself without testimony
He has shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven
and crops in their seasons. He provides you with plenty of food and fills your hearts
with joy.
Even with these words, they had difficulty keeping the crowd from sacrificing to them.
Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium,
and won the crowd over. They stoned Paul and dragged him outside the city thinking he was dead.
But after the disciples had gathered around him, he got up and went back into the city.
The next day, he and Barnabas left for Derby.
They preached the gospel in that city and won a large number of disciples,
Then they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch.
Strengthening the disciples and encouraging them to remain true to the faith.
We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God, they said.
Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church
and with prayer and fasting committed them to the lord in whom they had put their trust.
After going through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down to Italia.
From Italia, they sailed back to Antioch,
where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work
they had now completed.
On arriving there, they gathered the church together and reported
all that God had done through them.
And how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.
And they stayed there a long time with the disciples.
Good day, everyone. My name is Dave. I'm one of the pastors here at HBC.
Welcome again if you're tuning in from afar, and welcome if you're a h
regular. I know it's been said lots, but
I do miss seeing everyone on Sundays. It's been great going through the book of Acts
hasn't it?
From the very first chapter in Acts, we've seen how Jesus has been at work
through the disciples in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and beyond.
But I wonder if
've noticed a pattern that
keeps repeating. Nearly every time the message about Jesus gets preached,
it stirs up trouble.
Have you noticed that?
We've seen the apostles get
persecuted in Jerusalem by the Jewish leaders and then by Herod.
Stephen got stoned. James got killed. Peter was imprisoned.
And then as the gospel spread,
we've seen it come up against opposition in Samaria and Damascus.
And last week, we looked in chapter thirteen.
Where Paul and Barnabas go on the world's
first mission trip.
Only to get
opposed in Cyprus, and then they get expelled from Antioch.
And so you gotta wonder,
what is it
with these
We are bringing you great news, telling you
to turn from these worthless things
to the living God.
Who made the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and everything in them.
In the past, he let all nations
go their own way.
Yet he has not left himself
without testimony,
He has shown kindness
by giving you rain from heaven and crops in their season,
he provides you with plenty of food and fills your hearts with joy.
Paul looks out at this crowd.
Some of them trying to worship him, some of them trying to worship Zeus
because of the miracle.
Of them just confused.
And he wants them to know
their
creator.
He wants them to know the one
who made them
and the world that they enjoy.
Paul wants them to know
the one who they should thank.
Because they had it all wrong. Their whole culture
and religion was based on trying to work out if they needed to thank Zeus or Hermes or some other Roman god
for everything they had.
But Paul, filled with love for them,
calls out their culture and their heritage for what it is.
Worthless.
They've been living their lives and directing their thanks
to the wrong place.
Now this has got me thinking.
How do you think our culture, twenty first century Newcastle and Lake Mac, how
how does our culture how do how do people in our world give thanks? Where do people in our world
direct their thanks for all the
wonderful things in this life?
I've been thinking about this weekend. I'm I'm really not sure.
It's not like we don't have things to be thankful for. Right? Like, look at the lake and the
beaches and the rich fruits of the Hunter region. Just this weekend, gone. It's
that we're in now. This is fantastic. We have it so good.
And so where do people
direct their thankfulness?
For all these great things?
It could be that our world directs that thankfulness
inwardly.
Maybe some people think that it's really by their own effort or by humanity's
effort and hard work that we have all these things. And so maybe our culture just quietly thanks ourselves.
Or maybe our culture has developed, I don't know, a way of being thankful that isn't
really about thanking anyone.
Almost like we don't wanna direct our thanks anywhere in particular. We just want to appear thankful.
Or
maybe we've just become a society that
suppresses thankfulness.
Maybe we've convinced ourselves that
this is all just a big accident anyway, and we condition ourselves to
stop feeling
that
right sense of wonder and
amazement
at life and and all the ways life can be so good.
Just like the lichonians,
that misplaced thankfulness or even that lack of thankfulness
is worthless.
It's empty. It's a terrible
terribly empty way of life.
Have
access to so many wonderful things and yet
miss out on being able to thank the very one who
provides them.
And even the one who provides the ability to enjoy it.
It's like receiving an amazingly expensive gift from a secret admirer.
By not knowing who gave you the gift,
there's a sense that you're actually missing out on something because you're not able to thank them. It's somehow
unfulfilling. The gift is somehow incomplete if you can't know the giver of the gift.
And so all the more,
with the gift of life itself.
That is,
one of the reasons we want it
tell people the gospel is so that they can live their lives
in a proper thankfulness.
To their creator who made them and loves them and cares for them
and who forgives them.
That is the greatest part of
the great news, isn't it?
Now, God doesn't just give us our life now,
He also wants us to
he also wants to
forgive us.
For the way
we've misused this life now.
And he wants to raise us to life with his son in eternity.
On that day,
we will see
all that God has done
through us
and we'll look back through all the hardship
and we will say,
it was worth it.
Friends, Jesus offers us
a wonderful promise
But even though we will all face hardship,
it will be worth it.
It.
Let's pray for that day.
Our heavenly father,
you are so kind. You provide us with so many good things
to enjoy.
And even though we have misused this life, you have
gone to the great extent of giving us your son.
And in his life, the price that we deserve to pay,
and you give us forgiveness to enjoy as well.
Father, we look forward to the day when we will see what you have done
through us by your grace.
Please help us to consider
whatever hardships arise,
whatever troubles we may face, for Jesus' name,
and say that they're worth it.
Amen.
