One Samuel chapter eight.
When Samuel grew old, he appointed
his sons as Israel's leaders. The name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of
his second was Abijah.
And they served Beersheba.
But his sons did not follow his ways.
They turned aside after dishonest gain and accepted bribes
and perverted justice.
So all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Rama.
They said to him, you are old, and your son
do not follow your ways. Now appoint a king
to lead us such as all the other nations have.
But when they said, give us a king to lead us,
this displeased Samuel.
So he prayed to the Lord.
And the Lord told him, listen to all that the people are saying to you.
It is not you they have rejected, but they have rejected me as their king.
As they have done from the day I brought them up out of Egypt,
until this day, forsaking me and serving other gods,
so they are doing to you.
Now listen to them, but warn them solemnly.
And let them know what
the king who will reign over them will claim as his rights.
Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who were asking him for a king
He said, this is what the king who will reign over you will claim as
his rights. He will take your sons and make them serve with his chariots and horses.
And they will run-in front of his chariots.
Some he will assign to be commanders of thousands and commanders
fifties and others to plow his ground and to reap his harvest.
And still others to make weapons of war
and equipment for his chariots. He will
take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers
He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive groves
give them to his attendants.
He will take a tenth of your grain and of your vintage
and give it to his officials and attendants.
Your male and female servants and the best of your
cattle and donkeys, he will take for his own use.
He will take a tenth of your flocks and you,
yourselves will become his slaves.
When the day comes, you will cry out for relief from the king you have chosen.
But the Lord will not answer you in that day.
But the people refused to listen to Samuel,
No, they said. We want a king over us.
Then we will be like the other nations with a king to lead us.
And to go out before us and fight our battles.
When Samuel heard all that the people said, he repeated it before the Lord.
The Lord answered,
listen to them and give them a king.
Then Samuel said to the Israelites,
everyone go back to your own town.
Chapter nine.
There was a Benjamite, a man of standing whose name was Kish,
son of Abil, the son of Zeror, the son of Bekarath, the son of
Aphiah, of Benjamin. Kish had a son named
Saul, as handsome a young man as could be found anywhere in Israel.
And he was a head taller than anyone else.
Now the donkeys belonging to Saul's father, Kish, were lost, and Kish said to
his son Saul,
take one of the servants with you and go and look for the donkeys. So he
through the hill country of Ephraim and through the area
around Chelicia, but they did not find them.
They went on into the district of Shalim
the donkeys were not there.
Then he passed through the territory of Benjamin,
they did not find them.
When they reached the district of Zuf,
Saul said to the servant who was with him,
come,
Let's go back or my father will stop thinking about the donkeys and start worrying about us.
But the servant replied,
look. In this town, there is a man of God. He is
highly respected, and everything he says comes true.
Let's go there now. Perhaps he will tell us what way to take. So
said to his servant,
if we go,
what can we give the man?
The food is
the food in our sacks is gone. We have no gift to take the man of God.
What do we have?
Servant answered him again,
Look, he said, I have a quarter of a shekel of silver.
I will give it to the man of God so that he will tell us what way to take.
Formally in Israel, if someone went to inquire of God, they would say,
come, let us go to the seer. Because the prophet of today used to be called a
seer.
Good, said Saul to his servant. Come,
Let's go. So they set out for the
town where the man of God was. As
You will be rescued.
When the messages went and reported this to the men of Jabesh,
they were elated.
They said to the Ammonites,
tomorrow we will surrender to you, and you can do to us whatever you like.
The next day, Saul separated his men into three divisions.
During the last watch of the night, they broke into the camp of the Ammonites and
slaughtered them until the heat of the day.
Those who survived were scattered so that no two of them were left together.
The people then said to Samuel,
who was it that asked, shall Saul reign over us?
Turn these men over to us so that we may put them to death. But Saul said,
said,
no one will be put to death today. For this day,
the Lord has rescued Israel.
Then Samuel said to the people,
come, let us go to Gilgal, and there, renew the kingship.
So all the people went to Gilgal and made Saw
king in the presence of the lord.
There, they sacrificed fellowship offerings before the Lord,
and Saul and all the Israelites held a great celebration.
Chapter twelve.
Samuel said to all Israel,
I've listened to everything
you said to me.
And I have set a king over you.
Now you have a king as your leader.
But as for me, I am old and gray.
And my sons are here with you.
I have been your leader from my youth until this day.
Here I stand.
Testify against me in the presence of the lord and his anointed.
Whose ox have I taken?
Whose donkey have I taken?
Whom have I cheated?
Whom have I oppressed? From whose hand have I
accepted a bribe to make me shut my eyes?
If I have done any of these things, I will make it right.
You have not cheated or oppressed us, they replied.
You have not taken anything from anyone's hand.
Samuel said to them,
the Lord is witness against you, and also
his anointed is witness this day.
That you have not found anything in my hand.
He is witness, they said.
Then Samuel said to the people,
it is the Lord who appointed Moses and Aaron
and brought your ancestors up out of Egypt.
Now then, stand here because I am going
to confront you with evidence before the Lord as to all the
acts performed by the Lord
for you and your ancestors.
After Jacob entered Egypt, they
cried to the Lord for help, and the Lord sent
Moses and Aaron
who brought your ancestors out of Egypt and settled them in this place.
But they forgot the Lord their God.
So he sold them into the hand of Sisera.
The commander of the army of Hazel.
And into the hands of the Philistines and the king of Moab,
who fought against them.
They cried out to the lord and said,
we have sinned. We have forsaken the Lord,
and served the Baals and Astaroths.
But now deliver us from the hands of our enemies
and we will serve you
Then the lord sent Jeroboel,
Barak, Jephaf, Samuel,
and he delivered you from the hands of your enemies.
All around you so that you lived in safety.
But when you saw
Nahash, king of the Ammonites, was moving against you, you said to me,
no.
We want a king to rule over us.
Even though the lord, your god, was your king.
Now here is the king you have chosen, the one you have asked for.
See, the Lord has set a king over you.
If you fear the Lord and serve and obey him and do not
rebel against his commands,
and if both you and the king who reigns over you follow the lord your god,
Good.
But if you do not obey the Lord,
and if you rebel against his commands,
his hands will be against you as it was against your ancestors.
Now then, stand still and see this
great thing the Lord is about to do before your eyes.
It not wheat harvest now? I will call
on the lord to send thunder and rain.
And you will realize
what an evil thing you did in the eyes of the Lord when you asked for a king.
Then Samuel called on the Lord.
And that same day, the lord sent thunder and rain
So all the people stood in awe of the Lord and of Samuel.
The people all said to Samuel, pray to the Lord
your God for your servants so that we will not die.
For we have added to all our other sins the evil of asking for a king.
Do not be afraid, Samuel replied.
You have done all this evil, yet
do not turn away from the lord, but serve the lord with all your heart.
Do not turn away after useless idols.
They can do you no good, nor can they rescue you because they are useless.
For the sake of his great name, the lord will not reject his people.
Because the Lord was pleased to make you his own.
As for me, far be it from me that I should sin
the Lord by failing to pray for you.
And I will teach you the way that is good and right.
But be sure to fear the Lord and serve him faithfully,
with all your heart.
Consider what great things he has done for you.
Yet if you persist in doing evil, both you and your king will perish.
Chapter thirteen.
Saul was thirty years old when he became king.
And he reigned over Israel forty two years.
Saul chose three thousand men from Israel.
Two thousand were with him at Mikash,
in the hill country of Bethel.
And a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin.
The rest of the men, he sent back to their homes.
Jonathan attacked the Philistine outpost at Geba.
And the Philistines heard about it.
Then Saul had the trumpet blown throughout the land and said, let
the Hebrews hear.
So all Israel heard the news.
Saul has attacked the Philistine outpost.
And now Israel has become obnoxious to the Philistines.
And the people were summoned.
To join Saul at Gilgal.
The Philistines assembled to fight Israel.
With three thousand chariots.
Six thousand charioteers, and soldiers as numerous as the sand on the seashore.
They went up and camped at Mi'kmash.
East of Bethhaven.
When the Israelites saw that their situation was critical,
and that their army was hard pressed,
They hid in caves and thickets among the rocks.
And in pits.
And cisterns.
Some Hebrews even crossed the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead.
Saul remained at Gilgal,
and all the troops with him were quaking with fear.
He waited seven days, the time set by Samuel.
But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and Saul's men began to scatter.
So he said, bring me the burnt offering and the fellowship offerings.
And Saul offered up the burnt offering.
Just as he finished making the offering,
Samuel arrived.
And Saul went out to greet him.
What have you done? Asked Samuel.
Saul replied,
when I saw that the men were scattering,
and that you did not come at the set time and that the Philistines were
assembling at Michmash,
I thought, now the Philistines will come down against
me at Gilgour.
And I have not sought the lord's favor. So I felt compelled to offer
the burnt offering.
You have done a foolish thing, Samuel said.
You have not kept the command the lord your god gave you.
If you had, he would have established your kingdom over Israel for all time.
But now your kingdom will not endure.
The Lord has sought out a man after his own heart,
and appointed him ruler of his people.
Because you have not kept
the lord's command.
Then Samuel left Gilgal
and went up to Gibeah in Benjamin.
And Saul counted the men who were with him.
They numbered about six hundred.
Saul and his son Jonathan and the men with them
were staying in Gibeah.
In Benjamin.
While the Philistines camped at
Mikmash.
Raiding parties went out from the Philistine camp in three detachments.
One turned towards
Oprah,
in the vicinity of Shu'al.
Another towards Beth Heron,
and a third toward the borderland overlooking the valley of Zebi'om
facing the wilderness.
Not a blacksmith could be found in the whole land of Israel,
because the Philistines had said,
otherwise, the Hebrews will make swords and spears.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines to have
their plow points, mattocks,
axes, and sickles sharpened. The price was two
thirds of a shekel for sharpening plow points and mattocks.
And a third of the
shekel for sharpening forks and axes and for repointing goads.
So on the day of the battle, not a soldier with
Saul and Jonathan had a sword or spear in his hand.
Only Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
Now a detachment of Philistines had gone out,
to the pass.
At
Mikmash.
Chapter fourteen.
One day, Jonathan, son of Saul,
said to his young armor bearer,
come. Let's go over to the Philistine outpost on the other side.
But he did not tell his father.
Saul was staying on the outskirts of Kibya
under a pomegranate tree in Migron.
With him were about six hundred men.
Among whom was Ahiyeja,
who was wearing an ephod.
He was a son of Ichabod's brother,
Aetiub,
son of Phineas.
The son of Eli, the lord's priest in Shiloh.
No one was aware that Jonathan had left.
On each side of the pass that Jonathan intended to cross
to reach the Philistine outpost
was a cliff.
One was called Boaz,
and the other
Shena. One cliff stood to the north toward
Mi'kmash.
The other stood toward
Gerbia.
To the south.
Jonathan said to his young armor bearer,
come. Let's go over to the outpost of these uncircumcised men.
Perhaps the lord will act on our behalf.
Nothing can hinder the lord from saving.
Whether by many or by few.
Do all that you have in mind, his armor bearer said.
Go ahead. I am with you heart and soul.
Jonathan said, come on then.
We will cross over toward them.
And let them see us.
If they say to us,
wait there until we come to you,
we will stay where we are and not go up to them.
But if they say, come up to us,
we will climb up.
Because that will be our sign that the Lord has given them into our hands.
So both of them showed themselves to the Philistine outpost.
Look, said the Philistines. The Hebrews are crawling out of the holes
they were hiding in.
The men of the outpost shouted to Jonathan and his armor bearer.
Come up to us, and we'll teach you a lesson.
So Jonathan said to his armor bearer,
climb up after me. The Lord has given them into the hand of Israel.
Jonathan climbed up using his hands and feet
with his armor bearer right behind him.
The Philistines fell before Jonathan.
And his armor bearer followed and killed behind him.
In that first attack, Jonathan and his armor bearer
killed some twenty men
in an area of about half an acre.
Then panic struck the whole army,
those in the camp and field, and those in the outposts and raiding parties.
And the ground shook
It was a panic sent by God.
Saul's outlooks at Gibeah in Benjamin
saw the army melting away in all directions.
Then Saul said to the men who were with him,
master the forces and see who has left us.
When they did, it was Jonathan and his armor bearer
who were not there.
Saul said to Ahaja,
bring the ark of God
At that time, it was with the Israelites.
While Saul was talking to
the priest,
the
tomb of
the Philistine camp increased more and more.
So Saul said to the priest,
withdraw your hand.
Then Saul and all his men assembled and went to the battle.
They found the Philistines in total confusion, striking each other with their swords.
Those Hebrews who had previously been with the Philistines
and had gone up with them to their camp
went over to the Shlites,
who were with Saul and Jonathan.
When all the Israelites who had hidden in the hill country of Ephraim
heard that the Philistines were on the run, they joined the battle in hot pursuit.
So on the day
the Lord saved Israel,
and the battle moved on beyond Bethhaven.
Now the Israelites were in distress that day.
Because Saul had bound the people under an oath saying,
cursed is anyone who eats food before evening comes.
Before I have avenged myself on my enemies.
So none of the troops tasted food.
The entire army entered the woods,
and there was honey on the ground.
When they went into the woods, they saw the honey oozing out.
Yet no one put his hand to his mouth because they feared the oath.
But Jonathan,
had not heard that his father had bound the people with the oath,
he reached out the end of the staff
that was in his hand and dipped it into the honeycomb.
He raised his hand to his mouth
and his eyes brightened.
Then one of the soldiers with with him
told him,
your father bound the army under strict oath.
Saying, cursed be anyone who eats food today.
That is why the men are faint.
Jonathan said,
my father has made trouble
for the country.
See how my eyes brightened when I tasted a little of this honey?
How much better it would have been if the men had eaten today some of the
plunder they took from their enemies.
Would not the slaughter of the Philistines have been even greater?
That day, after the Israelites had struck
down the Philistines from Michmash to Aladdon,
They were exhausted.
They pounced on the plunder and taking sheep, cattle,
and calves, they butchered them on the ground and ate them together with their blood.
Then someone said to Saul, look.
The men are sinning against the lord by eating meat that has blood in it.
You have broken faith, he said. Roll a large stone over here at once.
Then he said, go out among the men and tell them,
each of you bring me your cattle and sheep and slaughter them here and eat them.
Do not sin against the lord by eating meat with blood still in it.
So everyone brought his ox,
that night and slaughtered it there.
Then Saul built an altar to the Lord,
It was the first time he had done this.
Saul said,
let us go down and pursue the Philistines by night and plunder them till dawn. Let us
not leave one of them alive.
Do whatever seems best to you, they replied.
But the priest said,
let us inquire of God here.
So Saul asked, God, shall I go down and pursue the Philistines?
Will you give them into Israel's hand?
But God did not answer him that day.
Saul therefore said, come here,
all who are leaders of the army.
And let us find out what sin has been committed today.
As surely as the Lord who rescues Israel lives,
even if the guilt lies with my son, Jonathan, he must die.
But not one of them said a word.
Saul then said to all the Israelites,
you stand over there,
and I and Jonathan, my son, will stand over here.
Do what seems best to you.
They replied. Then Saul prayed to the Lord, the God of Israel,
why have you not answered your servant today? If the fall
is in me or my son, Jonathan, respond with Urim.
But if the men of Israel are at fault,
respond with Thuramim.
Jonathan and Saul were taken by Lot, and the men were cleared.
Saul said, cast the lot between me and Jonathan, my son.
And Jonathan was taken. Then Saul said to Jonathan,
tell me what you have done.
So Jonathan told him, I tasted a little honey with the end of my staff,
and now I must die.
Saul said, may God deal with me.
Be it ever so severely, if you do not
die, Jonathan.
But the men said to Saul, should Jonathan die?
He who has brought about this great deliverance in Israel?
Never. As surely as the Lord lives, not a hair on his head,
will fall to the ground.
For he did this today with God's help.
So the men rescued Jonathan, and he was not put to death.
Then Saul stopped pursuing the Philistines,
and they withdrew to their own land,
After Saul had assumed rule over Israel,
he fought against their enemies on every side, Moab,
the Ammonites, Edom, the kings of Zorba, the Philistines.
Wherever he turned, he inflicted punishment on them.
He fought valiantly and defeated
the Amethokites.
Delivering Israel from the hands of those who had plundered them.
Saul's sons were Jonathan,
Ijvi, Malkisuer,
The name of his older daughter was Marab,
and that of his younger was Michael.
His wife's name was Ahin Namam,
daughter of Ahismaz.
The name of the commander of Saul's army was Abna, son of Nur.
Ner was Saul's uncle.
Saul's father, Kish, and Abna's father, Ner,
sons of Abel.
All the days of Saul, there was bitter war with the Philistines.
Whenever Saul saw a mighty or brave man,
he took him into his service.
Chapter fifteen.
Samuel said to Saul,
I'm the one the Lord sent to anoint you king over his people Israel.
Now listen to the message from the Lord.
This is what the Lord Almighty says.
I will punish the Amalekites.
For what they did to Israel
when they waylaid them
as they came up from Egypt.
Now go. Attack the Amalekites and totally destroy
all that belongs to them.
Do not spare them. Put to death men and women.
Children and infants, cattle and sheep,
camels and donkeys.
So Saul summoned the men and mustered them at Telaim.
Two hundred thousand foot shoulders.
And ten thousand from Judah.
Saul went to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the ravine.
Then he said to the Kenites,
go away. Leave the Amalekites so that I do not
destroy you along with them.
For you showed kindness to all the Israelites when they came up out of Egypt.
So the Kenites moved away from the Amalekites.
Then Saul attacked the Amalekites all the way from Havelar
to Shur.
Near the eastern border of Egypt.
He took Agag,
king of the Amalekites alive, and all
people he totally destroyed with the sword.
But Saul and the army spared Agag,
and the best of the sheep and cattle.
The fat calves and lambs,
everything that was good. These
they were unwilling to destroy completely,
but everything that was despised and weak, they totally destroyed.
Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel.
I regret that I have made Saul king.
Because he has turned away from me
and has not carried out my instructions.
Samuel's angry, and he cried out to the lord all that night.
Early in the morning, Samuel got up and went to meet Saul.
But he was told, Saul has gone to Carmel.
There he has set up a monument
in his own honor and has turned
and gone down to Gilgal.
When Samuel reached him, Saul said,
the Lord bless you. I have carried out the Lord's instructions.
But Samuel said,
what then is this bleeding of sheep in my ears?
What is this lowing of cattle that I hear?
Saul answered, the soldiers brought them from the Amalekites.
They spared the best of the sheep and cattle to sacrifice to the Lord your God,
but we totally destroyed the rest.
Enough, Samuel said to Saul.
Let me tell you what the Lord said to me last night.
Tell me, Saul replied.
Samuel said,
although you were once small in your own eyes,
did you not become the head of the tribes of Israel?
The Lord anointed you king over all Israel.
And he sent you on a mission saying, go and completely destroy these
wicked people, the Amalekites. Wage war against them until you have
wiped them out.
Why did you not obey the lord? Why did you pounce on the plunder
do evil in the eyes of the lord?
But I did obey the Lord.
Saul said.
I went on the mission the Lord assigned me. I complete
destroyed the Amalekites and brought
back Agag their king.
The soldiers took the sheep and cattle from the plunder, the best of what
was devoted to God
in order to sacrifice them to the Lord your God at Gilgal.
But Samuel replied,
does the lord delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices?
As much as in obeying the Lord,
To obey
is better than sacrifice.
And to heed is better than the fat of rams.
For rebellion is like the sin of divination, and
arrogance like the evil of idolatry.
Because you have rejected the word of the Lord,
he has rejected you as king.
Then Saul said to Samuel,
I have sinned.
I violated the Lord's command.
And your instructions.
I was afraid of the men, and so I
gave into them. Now I
beg you,
forgive my sin and come back with me so that I may worship the Lord.
But Samuel said to him,
I will not go back with you.
You have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you as king over Israel.
As Samuel turned to leave, Saul caught
hold of the hem of his robe.
And it tore.
Samuel said to him,
the Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today
and has given it to one of your neighbors.
To one
better than you.
He who is the glory of Israel,
does not lie or change his mind,
but he is not a human being that he should change his mind.
Saul replied,
I have sinned.
But please honor me before the elders of my people
and before Israel,
Come back with me so that I may worship the Lord your God.
So Samuel went back with Saul.
And Saul worshiped the Lord.
Then Samuel said, bring me Agag, king of the Amalekites.
Agag came to him in chains, and he thought,
surely the bitterness of death is past.
But Samuel said,
as your sword has made women childless,
so will your mother be childless among women.
And Samuel put Agag to death before the lord
at Gilgal,
Then Samuel left for Rama,
but Saul went up to his home in Gibeah of Saul,
Until the day Samuel died,
he did not go to see Saul again.
Though Samuel mourned for him,
and the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king
over Israel.
