Alright.
So one Corinthians ten one to thirteen.
For I do not want you to be ignorant of the fact.
Brothers and sisters,
that our ancestors were all under the cloud
and that they all passed through the sea.
They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea.
They all ate
the same spiritual food drank the same spiritual drink.
For they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them
and that rock was crushed.
Nevertheless, God was not pleased with most of them.
Their bodies were scattered in the wilderness.
Now these things occurred
as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did.
Not be idolaters,
as some of them were.
As it is written,
the people sat down
to eat and drink and got up to indulge in revelry.
Should not commit sexual immorality
as some of them did.
And in one day,
twenty three thousand of them died.
We should not test Christ
as some of them did.
And were killed by snakes.
And do not grumble as some of them did.
And were killed by the destroying angel.
These things happened to them as examples
and were written down as warnings for us.
On whom the culmination of the ages has come So
if you think you are standing firm,
be careful that you don't fall.
No temptation has overtaken you except what is common to mankind.
And God is faithful.
He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.
But when you are tempted,
he will also provide a way out.
So that you can endure it.
Well, it's great to be with you this morning.
I've just gotten back from our growth group weekend away up Barrington.
We had,
seventeen adults and seventeen kids come away with us.
And it was carnage and chaos,
but my heart is full,
and it's exciting to be here
opening up the bible with you this morning.
So there's a big passage we have before us.
It's a passage that speaks into a tendency we can have as Christians
to be overconfident.
We all have a tendency to be overconfident in ourselves.
Scott Petty,
who writes those little black books that really helpful,
he's got a book called
What's Life
about references a survey of high school students
in New South Wales,
where they were asked,
How many of you think
you're in the top fifty percent academic Answer,
ninety six percent.
Second question,
how many of you think then you're in the top one percent academic Answer,
twenty percent.
Nineteen percent overconfident
in themselves But it's common
it's common
for us to be overconfident in ourselves.
You know, the person who thinks,
oh, yeah, that our key unit only gonna take me thirty minutes
to whip up without the instructions.
Two hours later,
I missed a step back at step number twenty.
At Christmas,
my neighbor,
bought a cubby house for his kids.
And he said,
come over,
Juan Arvo.
We'll have a couple of drinks.
You know, a couple of hours,
we'll pump it out.
It'll be easy.
And to this day,
the slippery slider still not attached to that cubby house.
Now, it's common in life
to be overconfident.
And there's a real risk as Christians
That we're overconfident in our relationship with God,
But we think,
oh, he's a God of love.
He's a God who's gonna forgive me no matter what.
And so it doesn't matter how I live.
You know, I have the right to do anything.
He's gonna have to forgive me anyway.
He's there
to serve me.
And so it's easy
for us to be overconfident
and take God for granted.
The Corinthians had that attitude.
They were puffed up by their knowledge to the point they were flirting with idolatry.
At the cost of their brothers and sisters.
They would say one of their sayings was,
I have the right to do
Because I'm a Christian.
God's
gonna forgive me.
Whatever I whatever I drink,
I have the right to do anything.
And in light of that attitude,
Paul in chapter ten now warns them with this example from their and our history.
He warns them about what kind of having that kind of attitude
and how it didn't go well,
for a generation of the Israelites,
the wilderness generation in the Old Testament.
And see,
have a look at how this passage is a warning for us in verse six.
Paul says,
now these things occurred
As examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did.
Or have a look at verse eleven.
These things happened to them as examples
and were written down as warnings for us.
On whom the culmination of the ages has come.
And so these particular examples we're gonna look at in the wilderness in a moment.
They happen to them as warnings for us.
Which just as an aside is an interesting way to think about reading the Old Testament,
isn't it?
Thinking about it more more than mere history,
but as events that actually teach us now about how we are to live as Christians.
And see,
word that Paul uses for examples here in verse six and verse eleven,
is actually the word types.
And some of you might have heard this before.
It's where we get the word typology from.
Which is this this way of thinking about the historical events of the Old Testament and
how they are fulfilled and how they can Apply to us now as Christians in light of Jesus' death and resurrection.
There's great dangers with this idea of typology.
Because people with great imaginations can and do run riot the lessons we need to learn from the Old Testament in applying to us today.
So people will say things like,
oh, you got Moses right,
and the beginnings of his story.
He killed an Egyptian.
Which means for our leaders in our church today,
they've got to be men of action.
Before they can be preachers of God's word,
Or in Judges chapter six,
Gideon puts out this fleece twice over two mornings
to to make sure God was with him
as he went about living for him.
And so we too should get our metaphorical fleeces
and put them out over two mornings
to work out
whether God is with us.
But see,
rather than there's lots of dangers with this.
But rather than use our imaginations
and so misappoint the Old Testament,
Our use of typology is to be guided and guarded by how the New Testament authors
interpret the Old Testament in light of Jesus' death and resurrection for us.
And that's exactly what we have in front of us today.
We have an apostle who was commissioned to preach the very words of God using a pattern and an example,
a type from the old testament with his wilderness generation.
A generation who in their overconfidence their overconfidence led them to be judged by God,
He's gonna use them as an example to teach us and warn us.
Because verse eleven,
you see that these things were written on all those on whom the culmination of the ages has come.
Which is just a fancy way of saying this is an example for all Christians who live between Jesus' resurrection and Jesus' return.
And so it was a warning for the Corinthians who live in those last days.
But it is a warning for us today as well who live at the overlap of the ages,
the overlap of the present evil age and the overlap of the age to come,
the new creation.
And so let's dig in to this example.
Let's look at this example
that Paul gives us from this wilderness generation.
And in verses one to five,
we're gonna see how blessed they were
and yet how their overconfidence led them to be judged.
And then in verses six to ten,
Paul then really digs in in four specific ways that they set their hearts on evil.
To warn us to take sin seriously and not be judged,
we're gonna finish by looking at a particular warning an explicit warning and a really nice encouragement to finish in verse thirteen.
But look at the overconfidence of the Israel generation from verses one to four.
For I do not want you to be ignorant of the fact,
brothers and sisters,
that our ancestors were all under the cloud
and they all passed through the sea.
They were all baptized into Moses,
in the cloud and in the sea.
They all ate the same spiritual food
and drank the same spiritual drink for they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them,
and that rock was Christ.
So in verse one,
Paul says,
don't be ignorant.
Look at our history.
Look at our ancestors in the Old Testament.
They were all under a cloud.
And that cloud that Paul is referring to
is is God's presence
with his people.
As a pillar of cloud.
When he guarded and protected his own people out of slavery from Egypt in the
And then he speaks of them
passing through the sea.
Which again is referring to that amazing event of God's power
and prediction as he saved his people
as they crossed over the Red Sea on dry
And so in verse verse two,
through this experience,
being under the cloud
and going through the sea,
they were all baptized.
Into Moses.
Which is just a poetic way of saying,
the Israelites came under the leadership of Moses.
As he guided them through the metaphorical waters of baptism,
if you will.
Will.
So he speaks of this spiritual baptism that they experienced this blessing of God's salvation to them,
Then in verses three to four,
Paul turns to speak about this blessing spiritual food and drink,
which is kind of tying the food
and drink themes of chapter eight and the Lord's
Supper that we're gonna see in weeks in one Corinthians around this.
And so in verse three,
he speaks about this spiritual food which is referring to to the blessing of manna and quail,
the wilderness generation received
when they were hungry.
God providing for them.
And then in verse four,
he speaks about this spiritual drink which is referring to this rock that Moses struck to give the Israelites,
you know, some wilderness spring water out of this rock when they were thirsty.
And in fact,
he goes so far to say down there in verse four,
all of this blessing came through the rock of Christ.
We can sometimes think that the Israelites had it bad.
You know, that they weren't that blessed,
really.
But they were blessed.
Paul's gone to great lengths here
to show us
they were sharing in the blessings of Christ.
God saved them
and was guiding and providing for them.
Every step of the way.
You know, wilderness spring water on tap from every rock.
They had the daily menu of quail and menor.
You pay fifty dollars for spiced crusted quail in restaurants today.
That was their daily menu.
And so Paul,
he's gone to great lengths
to build this this connection between the wilderness generation and the blessings that we have.
God bless them.
But in their overconfidence,
they took God for granted.
Look at verse five.
Nevertheless, God was not pleased with most of them.
Now that's a slight understatement on Paul's behalf.
Most of them is all but two of them.
Only two of that generation entered the promised land.
The rest experienced the righteous of a holy God.
As their bodies were scattered throughout the
And so the wilderness generation story,
it's like that of the cocky athlete.
Right?
You know, the runner or cyclist who have everything going for them.
They're in front.
It's their race to lose.
But in their overconfidence,
they celebrate before the finish line,
and the person in seconds sneaks in,
and we're like,
Suck in.
And then they lose the race,
That was the wilderness generation.
All of these blessings from God,
they had everything going for them.
But they took God for granted.
They turned from God.
And they lost the race.
And so Paul says in verse six,
these things occurred
as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did.
Okay.
Well, what are these examples,
Paul?
How did they set their hearts on evil things?
How does their story help
us not set our hearts on evil things?
And Paul says,
well, I'm glad you asked.
I'll give you four examples in verses seven to ten.
One example for each verse.
So the first example he gives is there in verse seven.
And he says,
do not be idolaters as some of
as some of them were.
As it is written,
the people sat down
to eat and drink and got up to indulge in revelry.
Now this is a quote from Exodus thirty two.
Israel has just been saved from from out of Egypt.
And they've made this covenant like a marriage commitment to love God in the way that he's already loved them.
And while Moses was up on Mount Sinai in the very presence of God
finalizing this commitment,
they thought,
wow, he's been gone a while.
I know what we'll do.
Let's melt down all of our gold,
and we'll worship a golden calf.
They sacrifice food to this false idiotic god.
And they sat down
to eat and drink,
which turned to revelry and bogey
and drunkenness and all that kind of stuff.
And Paul says,
does that sound familiar,
Corinthians?
In response to this evil under God,
the leaders of the Israelites went through the camp
killing three thousand of their brothers and friends.
Inflicting God's righteous judgment
for that sin.
Christians,
if you continue to participate in idol worship in your eating and drinking and revelry revelry Paul says,
this could happen to you.
Don't be idolaters.
That's the first example.
The second example is in verse eight.
Where he says we should not commit sexual immorality.
As some of them did.
And in one day,
twenty three thousand of them died.
Now this is from numbers twenty five,
where the Moabite women,
another kind of nation,
their women enticed the Israelites into bed with them
and interred led them to sacrifice and eat.
And worship.
False to false gods.
And in response,
on that day,
God sent a plague through the Israelites.
Twenty three thousand of them died
until one of the priests in this horrific story drives a spear through an Israelite man,
and a foreign woman who was sleeping together in the very camp of God.
Completely disrespecting this holy God.
And Paul says,
Corinthians,
Christians,
if you continue in this sexual immoral immorality and idolatry,
you will you will share the same faith.
Don't commit sexual immorality.
The third example he gives is in verse nine.
We should not test Christ
as some of them did.
Then we see them,
the testing of Christ again.
Him preexisting in the Old Testament.
Don't test Christ like they did.
And were killed by snakes.
Now this is the stuff of nightmares for me.
This one,
I to go back
and read this because I hate snakes.
The third example Paul picks from the wilderness generation is in Numbers twenty four,
four to twenty one,
four to nine.
And so in the context,
here is a God who saved his people.
He's been providing for them.
Through the wilderness.
All of that spice crusted quail.
And then they've they have the nerve to turn around in Numbers twenty one and say,
we're gonna die in the wilderness.
We detest this food.
You know, the wilderness spring water.
And this sourdough manna.
You can just hear the the entitlement dripping
from their lips.
That they would doubt God's goodness,
and so they test Christ in the midst of him providing for them in that moment.
And so this is where the nightmares we God sent venomous snakes into the camp who bit the Israelites
Twenty three thousand of them died.
No.
That was the one before,
but many of them died this time.
But he says,
Corinthians,
Christians,
if you if you continue to test Christ,
if you think you can go and sin and just live however you want,
you will be killed.
And the word that Paul uses for kill here in verse nine and in verse in verse ten.
Is the word he uses often to speak of eternal destruction.
Don't take God lightly.
Don't test Christ.
And then the fourth example is in verse ten.
He says,
and do not grumble.
As some of them did.
And were killed by the destroying angels.
Now Israel grumbling is all throughout.
Their history.
You know, they grumbled about the difficulty of traveling in the wilderness,
and they wished that they could go back to their former lives in slavery,
But I think this was a particular reference to number sixteen,
where some of them grumbled about the appointed leadership of Moses and Aaron,
And so in judgment,
God opened the earth's
mouth and swallowed those grumblers up.
And so Paul says,
Corinthians,
Christians,
stop grumbling.
Or you too will face the destruction.
Of God's wrath.
I wanna apply these verses to us a little bit more in a moment,
but but first, I think this raises a question,
what do we do with a god like this?
Now these are gnarly passages of the bible,
aren't they?
Parts of scripture,
you know, we wanna put in a dark corner,
lock away from our non Christian friends and family.
These events really are the stuff of horror films.
Venomous saint snake plagues
and the earth swallowing people up.
How do you Christians worship a god like this?
Are you sick in the head or something?
You know, these are the stories that Richard Dawkins uses as examples in his book,
The God Delusion,
to mock Christianity.
And I've gotta give Richard Dawkins a lot of credit
because it was his book
that helped me start reading the bible
and led me to becoming a So praise God for Richard Dawkins.
But this is what he says in his book,
about some these particular stories that we've just looked at.
He says,
do these people who hold up the bible as an inspiration to moral righteousness,
have the slightest notion of what it is actually written in Well,
yes, we're reading it those verses today.
One cannot help yet again marveling at the extraordinarily draconian or excessively harsh view taken of the sin of flirting with rival gods,
To our modern sense of values and justice,
it seems a trifling sin.
The morals of scripture are disconnected from our modern morals.
And you know what?
I have to agree with Richard Dawkins here.
I agree that the morals of scripture are disconnected from our modern morals.
And you see that in the way that he thinks flirting with rival gods
is a trifling,
tiny,
little sin.
Our modern morals are so disconnected.
Because we don't understand how appalling our treatment of our holy god is.
The bible says Israel and our treatment of God
it's like adultery.
You know, imagine you're in a long term relationship and your partner,
you're off
serving and loving your family,
sleeps around with multiple sexual partners in your family home.
They get found out
but they think they can continue a relationship with you like nothing happens
Would you say that that's a trivial or trifling sin?
There are people in this room
today impacted by the disaster of adultery who beg to differ.
And when we flirt with other gods
and dabble around in little sins
thinking we can just use and abuse God,
like he's here
to be our slave.
We're not just treating another human like that.
We're treating the one true holy god who is pure and perfect like that.
It is the most serious and appalling wrong that we could ever do.
To treat God like that.
And so, friends,
we shouldn't be ashamed of these passages.
Paul isn't.
Because they teach us about the holiness of our God.
And the seriousness of our sin.
And the horror of God's eternal judgment.
Now to think about how these verses then apply to us,
you know, Paul could have picked a myriad of examples from the old testament
it's interesting.
I do think he deliberately picks out these events around idolatry and immorality and testing Christ and the grumbling.
Because it is so relatable to the Corinthian context.
In what they're experiencing.
And the sexual immorality and the food and drink,
it's all tied up into this idolatry
and worship of false gods.
But they're not just relatable to them.
They're really relatable to us as well.
And so idolatry You know, it might be hard for us in our context
to see our idolatry may not bow down to golden calves,
but we are such a materialistic society.
Now, idolatry for us is just dressed up in different clothes,
isn't it?
We often take the good things of this creation like work and relationships and money and lifestyle,
and we turn them into our gods that we worship.
Bowing down to them
and loving them more than the Lord the universe.
And so where does your heart lean
When you got a bit of spare time,
what in this creation can consumes your thoughts,
your time,
your money.
There lies an idol.
Sexual immorality.
You know, we may not jump into sexual immorality with temple prostitutes like the Corinthians,
but we're a culture that worships sex.
We're taught to think that sex is our right to have.
Now it doesn't matter if you're married or not.
Whatever whatever what matters is just getting it right.
And so our culture preaches to us.
You know, sex you've gotta have sex to have a healthy life.
Right?
You deserve sex
if you wanna feel better.
If you're not having sex,
there's something wrong with you.
And look,
if we can't find it in a relationship
or can't get enough of it in a relationship,
just hook into the instant gratification of porn.
And so feed this whole industry that enslaves people,
and abuses people.
All for a little
